---
todo: Introducing the Auto Release Draft
---

Javascript actions are just regular node modules that run directly on the machine hosting the workflow.  
We can use any language that can be compiled or rather transpiled to javascript.

TypeScript grants us some important quality of life improvements over javascript.  
* Static typing as well as object oriented language contsructs like classes and interfaces.  
### Auto Release Draft  

Auto release draft is an action that automatically creates a draft of a GitHub release based on a newly created version tag.  

This listens for a GitHub webhook called create. This event will be triggered whenever someone pushes a new branch or a new tag to a repository.   
If the action determines it as a version tag, it gets the list of commits that happened since the last version tag and uses their messages to draft a new GitHub release.  

As soon as the create event fires, action has to make sure the event is the new version tag. In order to do that action reads the data associated with the event know as webhook payload and then it checks whether tag was created, whether the event is about version tag and whether the version follows the SemVer format. Once this is done, action calls out the command line output to get the list of commits since the last version tag.  
`git describe` to get the last version tag.
`git log` to get the messages of commits between the last version tag and the one that was created.  

The action will then use this information to create a new release draft by invoking the GitHub rest API also known as OctoKit.  To do that, the action will have to authenticate itself to the API using a repository token. This is the unique token that grants read, write access to the repository in which the workflow is currently running.  This token will be provided by the workflow itself as the input parameter.    
Finally, the action will return the url of the newly created release draft as a output parameter.  




